---
layout: post
title: Day 5
date: 2016-08-10T00:00:00.000Z
image: /assets/images/p1100323 (1).jpg
description: "Kerne Bridge to\tMuch Wenlock"
---


* Cyclist = Clem (and Karen to the first break)
* Departure from Draycott = ‪9.47am
* Miles cycled = 65.8
* Total ascent = 4,256ft
* Wrong turns = Many (Garmin tried to take us down footpaths and other unsuitable routes)
* Counties = Somerset, Gloucestershire, Monmouthshire
* Arrival in Coleford = 7‪.20pm


I woke up this morning feeling rather downhearted. My abandonment of yesterday's cycle with 8 miles left to run meant that I had extra mileage to do today. In addition to this, I was left holding the baton, as I had no other cyclists accompanying me today.

The departure point was the car park of the Health Centre in Coleford, a small town two miles east of the Welsh border. It wasn’t quite the attractive location I've had on previous days. Apparently, Coleford is renowned for making the plastic bottles for Ribena and Lucozade. That says it all.&nbsp;

Once I’d left the town, the scenery improved significantly, as I cycled through the Forest of Dean. The route took me on a long, sweeping journey down the River Wye, which was very satisfying, until I saw that the Garmin was displaying the words 'off course.’ &nbsp;When I reviewed the back-up pages from the road atlas, I realised that I had, indeed, missed a turn half-way up the hill. However, a review of page 28 of the road atlas suggested that all roads head towards my destination, Kerne Bridge, so I continued downwards.

One of the highlights of the day was cycling at the side of the River Wye in a relatively remote area. It was incredibly peaceful. This stretch of single track road also wins the Day 5 'surface of the day' award. Very smooth Tarmac gives a more comfortable ride but also requires less pedal power due to reduced friction. If only there was more of this!&nbsp;

The low point of the day was the agreed mid-afternoon stop at Overton. I still had 22 miles to go but was feeling very tired. Having eaten a banana, I collapsed on the grass and needed some persuasion from the support crew to get back on Ruby.&nbsp;

The route then took me through the middle of Ludlow with its half-timbered buildings. It was a very attractive town and I promised myself that I would return here without Ruby to investigate further.&nbsp;

After Ludlow I returned to the single track roads. Different in many ways to the unclassified roads in the West Country, the most significant difference was that they were relatively car-free, which allowed for more carefree and relaxed cycling. For some miles, the road snaked its way round the hills, maintaining a relatively constant altitude but with some ups and downs. The Shropshire countryside looked very mellow in the late afternoon light.&nbsp;

Without a companion cyclist today, I felt rather lonely and so took the opportunity to make plenty of blog-pals along the way:

Bernie from the Cancer Research shop in Ross-on-Wye

Four walkers (Pippa et al), who pointed out the view of the Wye valley and beyond and kindly made a donation to my sponsorship page.

A team of workmen who were repairing the road. One of them very reluctantly agreed to be in the photo.&nbsp;

Trevor and David who were out for a spin in their Austin 7. They'd driven her from John O'Groats to Land’s End in 1997.&nbsp;

The welcome party at my last stop, was, as always motivating. Yesterday, Jo's mum suggested that I was only doing the cycling for the hugs that happen along the way. It's a long way to cycle for a few hugs but they are very welcome!&nbsp;

So, Day 5 and my first solo stage, is now completed and I can look forward to being able to pass the baton onto the two friends who have joined me for Day 6 in the morning!